Medical Parity Editorial (#6321)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/cf-2181M.mdx

We do this by letting $d=y'\oplus z$, and as only the differences between the target and source array matters, the problem is equivalent to transforming a $0$ array into $d$.

Now, we consider Operation 1.
Since the operations are all from the end, we take inspiration from prefix sums to operate on an arbitrary range with $2$ opertaions:
Note that it is possible to flip any range, $d_{[i, j]}$, by flipping the range $[i, n]$ and then the range $[j+1, n]$.
This will result in a block of $1$s if the range has not been operated on before.
This requires $2$ operations, except when $j=n$, in which only $1$ operation, flipping $[i, n]$, is needed.
The number of operations can be treated as the number of "transitions" in $d_i$ when scanned from left to right, with an artificial $0$-th value inserted at $0$ (so that if the first value is $1$, an additional transition is considered).

An Operation 2 allows us to change a single digit in $d$ from a construction with only Operation 1.
Note that when flipping at least $2$ adjacent elements, it is always more optimal to use at most $2$ Operation 1's than to flip them individually with at least $2$ Operation 2’s.

> The only optimization using Operation 2 is therefore to reduce the number of transitions from our Operation 1 strategy by flip singular elements that are different from both of its neighbors, which combines the two adjacent transitions into $1$ flip.

Reviewer: flipping not flip

Author: Flip can also be a noun, no?

Reviewer: no i mean u wrote "by flip singular elements that are different" it shd be "by flipping singular elements that are different"

Author: ```suggestion
The only optimization using Operation 2 is therefore to reduce the number of transitions from our Operation 1 strategy by flipping singular elements that are different from both of its neighbors, which combines the two adjacent transitions into $1$ flip.
```

thx bro

Now, we consider Operation 1.
Since the operations are all from the end, we take inspiration from prefix sums to operate on an arbitrary range with $2$ opertaions:
Note that it is possible to flip any range, $d_{[i, j]}$, by flipping the range $[i, n]$ and then the range $[j+1, n]$.
This will result in a block of $1$s if the range has not been operated on before.
This requires $2$ operations, except when $j=n$, in which only $1$ operation, flipping $[i, n]$, is needed.
The number of operations can be treated as the number of "transitions" in $d_i$ when scanned from left to right, with an artificial $0$-th value inserted at $0$ (so that if the first value is $1$, an additional transition is considered).

Operation 2 allows us to alter any single digit in $d$ on top of a construction where we only use Operation 1.
Note that it is always optimal always more optimal to use at most two Operation 1's to flip at least 2 conescutive locations using Operation 2,
as flipping the range can be done with at most $2$ Operation 1's, while flipping individually requires at least $2$ Operation 2's.

> The only optimization for Operation 2 is therefore to flip singular elements that are different from both of its neighbors, so that the two Operation 1's from the transitions to and from the location involved can become one Operation 2 flipping the location itself.

Reviewer: the wording in this paragraph is confusing + there seems to be a grammatical error so i couldn't quite get what u meant

Author: ```suggestion
An Operation 2 allows us to change a single digit in $d$ from a construction with only Operation 1.
Note that when flipping at least $2$ adjacent elements, it is always more optimal to use at most $2$ Operation 1's than to flip them individually with at least $2$ Operation 2’s.
The only optimization using Operation 2 is therefore to reduce the number of transitions from our Operation 1 strategy by flip singular elements that are different from both of its neighbors, which combines the two adjacent transitions into $1$ flip.
```
